README.md, before:

# Tissue mircoarray MArker Quantification (TMArQ)

## About

This is a pipeline for quantification of antibody staining in TMA cores.

## Installation

To use TMArQ you will first need to install conda, see https://docs.conda.io/projects/conda/en/latest/user-guide/install/index.html

To run the code in this repository, the easiest is to clone it and then install the requirements

```
git clone https://github.com/StaafLab/TMArQ
cd TMArQ
conda env create -f tmarq.yml
```

## Usage

To run this pipeline, activate the conda environment and run snakemake

```
conda activate tmarq
snakemake -jall
```

## License

Copyright (C) 2023 Suze Roostee

This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or (at your option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along with this program. If not, see https://www.gnu.org/licenses/.

Commit message:

Add description on how TMArQ works to README.md

README.md, after:

# Tissue mircoarray MArker Quantification (TMArQ)

## About

This is a pipeline for quantification of antibody staining in TMA cores.
TMArQ works as follows:

1) Detection of region of interest (ROI) using Hough circle detection.
2) Colour deconvolution to separate out the DAB staining from the hematoxylin staining.
3) Thresholding signal in the DAB layer to determine DAB absence/presence on the level of individual pixels.
4) Cell nuclei segmentation using starDist.
5) Combining starDist detected cells with the DAB staining layer to count IHC-stained cells in the core. 

<img loading="lazy" width="30px" src="./figures/TMArQ.png" alt="TMArQ_pipeline png" />

## Installation

To use TMArQ you will first need to install conda, see https://docs.conda.io/projects/conda/en/latest/user-guide/install/index.html

To run the code in this repository, the easiest is to clone it and then install the requirements

```
git clone https://github.com/StaafLab/TMArQ
cd TMArQ
conda env create -f tmarq.yml
```

## Usage

To run this pipeline, activate the conda environment and run snakemake

```
conda activate tmarq
snakemake -jall
```

## License

Copyright (C) 2023 Suze Roostee

This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or (at your option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along with this program. If not, see https://www.gnu.org/licenses/.
